---
layout: post
title: Economy and Infra
categories: [general, demo, sample]
tags: [demo, dbyll, dbtek, sample2]
description: Sample placeholder post.
---

In addition to its role as the provincial capital, educational, and administrative centre, the economy of Jaipur is fuelled by tourism, gemstone cutting, the manufacture of jewellery and luxury textiles, and information technology.[51] Three major trade promotion organisations have their offices in Jaipur. These are: Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry, (FICCI) the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) and the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) which has its regional offices here. In 2008, Jaipur was ranked 31 among the 50 Emerging Global Outsourcing cities.[52] Jaipur Stock Exchange is one of the regional stock exchanges in India and was founded in 1989.[53] Jaipur is a major hub for arts and crafts. It has many traditional shops selling antiques, jewellery, handicrafts, gems, bangles, pottery, carpets, textiles, leather and metal products. Jaipur is one of India's largest manufacturers of hand-knotted rugs.[54][55] Jaipur leg, a rubber-based prosthetic leg for people with below-knee amputations, was designed and is produced in Jaipur.[56][57]

###Communication
**Jaipur** has offices of companies like Airtel, Vodafone, Jio, Reliance, Idea, BSNL & Tata which are providing Mobile Telephony and there are also various internet service providers in the city. Government of Rajasthan has started Free WiFi at various public places like Central Park, Jantar Mantar among others.

###Media
Major daily newspapers in Jaipur include Amar Ujala,[58] Rajasthan Patrika, Dainik Bhaskar, Dainik Navajyoti and The Times of India.[59][60] The state-owned All India Radio is broadcast both on the medium wave and FM band in the city. Private FM stations include Radio Mirchi (98.3 MHz), Radio City (91.1 MHz), My FM (94.3 MHz), FM Tadka 95 FM (95.0 MHz), Red FM 93.5 (93.5 MHz) and Gyan Vani (105.6 MHz). The city has a community FM channel in FM Radio 7 (90.4 MHz) by India International School Institutional Network. The public broadcaster Doordarshan (Prasar Bharati) provides a regional channel in addition to the private broadcasters.
